Pretoria - Gauteng s unemployed youth have a reason to be hopeful again.Gauteng has about 2.7 million young people aged between 15 and 34 who are neither studying nor working. Half of them have not completed Grade 12 and are unemployable, and close to 60% of them are in long-term unemployment. They have never worked and have lost hope.But with the unveiling of the Tshepo 1 Million programme, things are about to change for good for these young people.The programme, unveiled on Thursday, is aimed at empowering one million young people through skills training, job placement and entrepreneurship development, which will in turn help the youth to find sustainable jobs.Speaking at the launch, Premier David Makhura said the Tshepo (a Setswana word which means hope/trust) initiative was first launched in 2014, with the intention to empower 500 000 young people (Tshepo 500 000) through skills training and entrepreneurship development.However, the programme has been expanded to empower one million young people based on its success and the enthusiasm shown by private sector companies.Premier Makhura said this new phase will usher in a season of hope for the youth of Gauteng, as it is not a welfare initiative that seeks to patronise the youth. The youth don t want hand-outs. They want hand-ups. It is an initiative that taps on the energy, creativity and entrepreneurial spirit of the youth. It is about opening pathways for the youth to access employment and entrepreneurship opportunities. It is about giving the youth a helping hand and a second chance in life so that they can take charge of their own destiny. The Premier said the private sector s response in supporting this initiative has been amazing.Already about 25 companies, such as Microsoft SA, Coca Cola, Hollard, Gijima, Shanduka Black Umbrellas, COFESA, ABSA, Broll, CCBSA, Nestle, Unilever, SABMiller/ Abinbev, GE, Cisco, Standard Bank, FNB/ First Rand, Arcelor-Mittal, Barloworld, MasterCard, Media 24, BPESA and SIEFSA, have committed to work with government to give hope to unemployed young people in the province through this project. Tshepo is not just about hope for the youth. It s about hope for us all, for government, private sector and civil society. The private sector s response has been amazing, said Premier Makhura.Some of the commitments made by the partners include the following:The unveiling of this initiative took place on the eve of the national Youth Day. - SAnews.gov.za