Pretoria - Like all African countries and majority of developing countries, South Africa is hard at work to ensure that its youth are absorbed in the mainstream economy, says President Jacob Zuma.He said this on Thursday at the presentation of Letters of Credence to new Heads of Mission accredited to South Africa. The event was held at Sefako Makgatho Presidential Guest House in Pretoria.The President said youth need jobs and also need opportunities to open small businesses. We will continue working with your respective countries to promote economic cooperation for mutual benefit in this regard, he said, to the new Heads of Mission. We also meet during a period of serious economic challenges in our country and also globally. We went through such a period in 2009 when the first financial crisis set and caused a recession. As South Africans we normally function best during such a crisis. We pull together and use all skills and resources to fight the problem at hand. We are determined to do the same this time round. Government will meet with business to discuss how to face this challenge and reignite confidence in the economy and much-needed growth, said the President.He said the country is committed to continue building an inclusive and resilient economy as envisioned in the National Development Plan (NDP), which he said enjoins government to strengthen relations with its partners across the globe in order to build a resilient South African economy that will enable government to address challenges of poverty, unemployment and inequalities. I am certain that your presence in South Africa will thrust us towards achieving these national objectives and realise our shared vision 2030. We also remain committed to transform our economy so that the black majority who were excluded from ownership and control, participate in order to ensure sustainability into the future. No economy can be sustained for coming generations if the majority remains excluded. We are conscious that growing our economy to desired levels is a mammoth task considering the current sluggish growth at global level. However we are confident that working together with our people and also our partners and likeminded countries we can change the lives of our people for the better. He said South Africa s economy remains stable and conducive for investment and government continues to promote the ease of doing business in the country. Our strong institutions and governance structures also support this stability. - SAnews.gov.za