Pretoria - The Commission for Gender Equality (CGE) has saluted the fathers who are involved in raising of children and particularly those who are on their own, as they celebrate Fathers Day on Sunday. Fathers Day has an important celebratory significance, as it reminds us of the role that fatherhood plays in the upbringing of children. This is therefore an opportune moment to encourage all fathers to be proud of their role and status in their households, said Acting Chairperson of CGE, Dr Nondumiso Maphazi. CGE also paid homage and respect to all responsible fathers who assist their spouses, partners, fianc es and girlfriends in household chores, including caring for their children.The commission further called upon fathers on this day to boldly pronounce that the scourge of gender-based violence (GBV), sexual harassment and rape cannot continue to take place in their name. The commission is also aware that we also have present absent fathers who are there but not attached to their children emotionally and psychologically. Being a father is not about paying school fees, providing shelter and feeding the household, it goes beyond the physical presence. We applaud fathers who assist their kids with homework, make time for them and attend their children s school activities. Talk or engage the boy child about being a man and dispel the myth around masculinity. We also call upon absent fathers to think about the role that they would have been playing instead of letting their kids without proper role modelling that might have a bearing in years to come. We also wish to applaud fathers who do not outsource their fatherly responsibility to educators and society, said Dr Maphazi. CGE called on various men formations throughout the country to holistically and honestly engage on the role of fathers in society. It is imperative that we change the narrative on what constitutes being a father. Being a father is a beautiful thing and it should be embraced and celebrated. SAnews.gov.zaPretoria - The Commission for Gender Equality (CGE) says it has noted with concern the increasing spate of intimate partner killings and the rape of women and children.Pretoria The Commission for Gender Equality (CGE) has described the number of female ministers and deputy ministers appointed in the new national Cabinet as a significant step in the right direction.