Pretoria The Western Cape Education Department (WCED) has taken a decision to close all schools in the province due to severe weather expected in the province tomorrow.According to the department, all WCED learner transport will also be suspended for tomorrow. After extensive consultation with all role-players and at the recommendation of the Provincial Disaster Risk Management and SA Weather Service, I have taken the unprecedented decision in the interest of learner and educator safety to close schools in the Western Cape tomorrow, 7th June 2017, said Western Cape Head of Department, Brian Schreuder.Provincial Disaster Management and the South African Weather Service briefed cabinet on the possible impact of the severe weather in the province. We were informed from the South African Weather Service that the Western Cape will experience gale force winds and heavy rains over an extended period tomorrow during a storm that is expected to make landfall tonight, Shreuder said.At this stage, current weather forecast methodology predicts:Acting on the advice of the Weather Service and the Western Cape Disaster Management Centre (WCDMC), the department have decided to close schools on Wednesday as a precautionary measure. Our primary concern is the safety of learners and staff. The storm may damage some schools, which could place learners and staff at risk, as well as those who commute to school, especially in rural areas. We have been advised that the storm will abate by Thursday. Schools must therefore reopen on Thursday. We are cognisant that this decision will disrupt school programmes tomorrow, but we will be working with schools to ensure that the programme returns to normal and we request their understanding and cooperation in the circumstances, Shreuder said.Principals are urged to report any storm damage to schools to the Safe Schools Call Centre on 0800 45 46 47. We appreciate the concern and cooperation of our principals and will work closely with schools to deal with issues resulting from the storm, Shreuder added. SAnews.gov.zaCape Town Addressing teacher shortages, the disparities that exist between wealthy and poorer schools, critical school maintenance and repairs to accommodate increased learner numbers will be a top priority for the Western Cape Education Department.Pretoria - The Western Cape Education Department has announced the 24 March 2017 as a deadline for applications for enrolment in the provincial schools for 2018.Pretoria A total of 48 954 full-time candidates in the Western Cape have registered for the 2013 National Senior Certificate (NSC) exams.