President Jacob Zuma says he has announced his intention to establish a commission of inquiry into state capture.The President said this when he fielded oral questions at the National Assembly on Thursday.He was responding to a question from DA leader Mmusi Maimane. I wish to make it categorically clear that I have never instructed or directed any state institution to give contracts to anyone Having said that, the issues raised by the leader of opposition in his question are similar to the issues that were investigated by the Public Protector in the report titled State of Capture . I have stated on numerous occasions my intention to establish a commission of inquiry to investigate matters raised in the report. I am pursuing this course. I deem this to be in the public interest in the course of good governance and accountability, he said.In responding to a supplementary question from NFP MP Ahmed Shaik Imam, who had asked if the terms of reference of the probe would enable the inquiry to be expanded in terms of date and scope, the President said the terms of reference would take the matter into consideration.SA advocating for development of African countries at G20Meanwhile, President Zuma said that as the only African country in the G20 summit which is an international forum for governments and central bank governors from 20 major economies - South Africa uses its participation to advance the African agenda including sustainable development, inclusive growth, the reduction of inequality and the promotion of a just economic world order.He said sustainable inclusive development was given deeper meaning and emphasis during the Chinese Presidency of the G20 last year and was taken further during the German Presidency this year.He said that during the last summit in Germany, the G20 launched a G20 African partnership which is aimed at renewing efforts for sustainable economic development in Africa. This initiative is designed to support private investment, sustainable infrastructure development and employment in African countries. Investment compacts have already been committed to by a few African countries. A number of projects have been adopted as part of G20 Africa partnership aimed at ensuring inclusion of marginalised and vulnerable groups in our society, he said.He said the G20 initiative covers a number of areas, including rural youth employment and women entrepreneurs financing initiatives. South Africa uses its position as co-chair of the G20 Development Working Group to promote pro-poor and pro-Africa projects. The working group launched the important G20 initiative on supporting industrialisation in Africa and the least developed countries. SAnews.gov.za