Pretoria - The official memorial service of the late struggle stalwart and Rivonia Treason Trialist, Ahmed Kathy Kathrada, will take place on Saturday.The service will be held at the University of Johannesburg, in Soweto, to commemorate and reflect on the life and times of Kathrada.Uncle Kathy, as he was affectionately known, was buried yesterday. He passed away at the Donald Gordon Medical Centre, on Tuesday morning.The health of the 87-year-old deteriorated on Monday after he was admitted to hospital for surgery related to blood clotting in the brain earlier this month. His condition had worsened due to pneumonia, which developed after the operation. The Presidency is leading the planning for the official memorial service, in which Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the keynote address, on behalf of government. President Zuma had declared a Special Official Funeral for the struggle icon and flags are flying at half-mast at every station until Saturday evening. Cabinet on Thursday extended its condolences to his life partner, former Public Enterprises Minister Barbara Hogan and to the Kathrada family. Cabinet joins President Zuma in sending their deepest condolences to his partner, former minister of Public Enterprises Ms Barbara Hogan, the Kathrada family and his political home, the African National Congress, which Uncle Kathy served selflessly throughout his adult life. Condolences to Joe Mafela s familyMeanwhile, Cabinet also conveyed condolences to the family and friends of the legendary actor and filmmaker Joe Sdumo Mafela. He will be remembered for his immense contribution to our cultural landscape, Cabinet said.The veteran actor was laid to rest at Westpark Cemetery on Wednesday. Known for his roles in local sitcoms such as Sgudi 'Snaysi, Going Up and Madam and Eve, Mafela died in a car accident last weekend.Tribute to Petrus Rantlai MolemelaCabinet also paid tribute to the late Bloemfontein Celtic founder Petrus Rantlai Molemela, saying his legacy of a distinguished and much-respected career in the South African soccer administration contributed to sport and development of the community.Molemela, who had been at the helm of the soccer team since its inception in 1969, passed away last week at the age of 83. - SAnews.gov.za Pretoria - An official memorial service will be held in Vryburg in the North West tomorrow to honour struggle stalwart Ruth Segomotsi Mompati, the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) on State Funerals announced on Wednesday.Pretoria He was a son anyone would be proud of. He was a father that my sister and I will never forget... and we are grateful to have had him. Pretoria In keeping with the spirit of a man who has been largely described as humble and good natured, so is the mood at the Tshwane Events Centre, where hundreds have gathered to remember the understated political trailblazer that was Collins Ohm Chabane.