Pretoria - The South African Police Service (SAPS) has confirmed that four people have been taken in for questioning over the 7 March heist at OR Tambo International Airport in Gauteng. Within a week of investigations and interviewing of people of interest pertaining to this case, we can confirm that four people have been taken in for questioning, two of which appeared in the Kempton Park Magistrate s Court today [Tuesday] in connection with this heist. Two people are currently being questioned. It is highly regrettable that one of our own members is among the two. This confirms our version of not ruling out the possibility of a collusion and/or an inside job. We have resolved as law enforcement agencies to work hard in ensuring that the perpetrators of this crime are brought to book. As the South African Police Service, we would like to reiterate our stance that if we found that any of our members had a role to play, we would take decisive action. Our investigations continue and further court appearances and arrests are likely to be made, SAPS said in a statement on Tuesday evening.The police reassured all South Africans that they are committed to securing the country s ports of entry and preventing and combating serious crimes of this nature. Our people and the nation were justified in the outcry and the condemnation of the security breaches, which manifested themselves at OR Tambo International Airport, a national key point. The police thanked the multidisciplinary team of the SAPS and the Hawks, including the stakeholders who have been instrumental in ensuring a thorough investigation following the heist. The hard work and dedication of the team has resulted in the gathering of intelligence and subsequent arrest and questioning of suspects allegedly involved in the commission of this crime. Benoni mass killingIn relation to the 14 bodies that were found on the 5th and 6th of March in the vicinity of a railway line in Benoni, the police have arrested four people. We can confirm that the victims and suspects are all Lesotho nationals. One of the suspects was arrested in South Africa and three others were found in Lesotho. We are at this stage in talks with Interpol to expedite extradition processes. Unlicensed firearms that were found in their possession in Lesotho are subjected to forensic analysis. We would like to encourage anyone with information to come forward and assist the South African Police Service in bringing the perpetrators of both crimes to book. SAnews.gov.za