The Gauteng Department of Education has dismissed a report on social media that an educator was burnt by a learner at Buhlebemfundo Secondary School in Tsakane. The preliminary report reveals that the incident occurred on Thursday and involved two Grade 10 girl learners, aged 16 years and 18 years, the department said on Tuesday in a statement.It is alleged that an argument ensued between the two learners, which led to the 16-year-old pouring hot water on a fellow learner. The victim is receiving medical attention and a case of Grievous Bodily Harm (GBH) has been opened against the alleged perpetrator at the Tsakane South African Police Service. The alleged perpetrator was released into her parents custody and has been suspended from school pending disciplinary processes, the department said.The department has wished the learner a speedy recovery and reiterated its position of zero tolerance of violence.Meanwhile, the department has expressed concern about unnecessary and counterproductive disruptions of teaching and learning at Klipspruit-Wes Secondary School. It is of concern that 11 educators did report to the school today [Tuesday]. They, however, reported to the district office after four of their colleagues were prevented from entering the school premises yesterday [Monday]. As a result, Grade 11 learners did not write their assessment. The district and the school will make alternative arrangements for these learners. It is encouraging that the Grades 8 to 10 learners managed to write their assessments, while Grade 12 learners also continued their pre-trial examination. The department is of the view that the disruptions are unnecessary, counterproductive and fly against the spirit of the agreement reached with the community representatives. In the long run, it does not work in the interest of the learners and their future. The department has once again confirmed that investigations are underway to establish the veracity of all the allegations made by community organisations. We plead for patience, calm and understanding to allow the investigation process to take its course, the department said. SAnews.gov.zaWhile there was a general decline in poverty between 2006 and 2011, poverty levels in South Africa increased in 2015.Tshing- South Africa s youth who gathered in the North West province for this year's Youth Month celebrations on Friday have supported the call by President Jacob Zuma to place education at the forefront of their lives.Cape Town The Minister of Defence and Military Veterans, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, says government is making progress in providing education support for military veterans and their dependants.