Pretoria - Cabinet has welcomed the first meeting of the South Africa-China high level People-to-People Exchange Mechanism (PPEM), which took place from 24 to 27 April in Pretoria. The PPEM was inaugurated on Monday in Pretoria, and is an extension of the cordial and mutually beneficial relations between China and South Africa. The PPEM allows the two countries to exchange information and identify common objectives and strategies, and create opportunities for people in both countries to benefit from the sharing of social, cultural and economic capital across government, academia, business and civil society. The PPEM is the realisation of an agreement from the 2015 State visit to South Africa between President Jacob Zuma and President Xi Jinping. The [Inter-Ministerial Committee] on the People-to-People Exchange Mechanism, led by Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa, hosted Vice Premier Lui Yandong and delegates from the People’s Republic of China. A range of cooperation agreements were signed in human capital development and research and development. Other areas for enhanced cooperation include culture, communications, health, science and technology, sports, tourism, women affairs and youth. “The growth of an inclusive economy, characterised by radical socio-economic transformation, goes hand in hand with building the capacities of our people, especially our youth at various levels. “Cabinet welcomes the donation of medical equipment (made in SA) from the Chinese government, as part of a cooperation agreement in health between Africa and China. This will contribute to improving the quality of services delivered in public hospitals,” said Communications Minister Ayanda Dlodlo in a post Cabinet briefing on Friday. Through the cooperation agreements, both nations are committed to forge close mutual technical co-operation, teacher training and expertise exchanges in the field of education, particularly in Mathematics, Science and Technology as building blocks for the growth of knowledge economies. – SAnews.gov.za 