Pretoria Newly appointed Public Service and Administration Minister Faith Muthambi has called on accounting officers and managers in the Public Service to ensure that service delivery is not compromised on Friday, 7 April 2017. Minister Muthambi made this call on the back of some organizations calling for a stayaway on Friday.The Minister reminded public servants to conduct themselves in a professional and ethical manner and to comply with all the regulatory frameworks relating to their responsibilities. The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, the Public Service Code of Conduct and the Service Charter are the guiding documents for how public servants are expected to conduct themselves when performing their duties. Chapter 10 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa requires that the public service must, amongst others, maintain and promote a high standard of professional ethics and be accountable, the department said in a statement on Thursday afternoon.In terms of the Public Service Regulations, 2016, all employees in the public service have the responsibility to comply with the prescribed Code of Conduct. As this forms the main basis on which pro-active, corrective and disciplinary action rests, the employer must do everything possible to ensure that the provisions of the Code of Conduct are known to all employees, the department said.The Minister said it was important to reiterate that the primary purpose of the Code of Conduct is a positive one, namely to promote exemplary conduct. An employee shall be guilty of misconduct and may be dealt with in accordance with sections 16A and 16B of the Public Service Act, if he or she contravenes any provision of the Code of Conduct. It is against this background that the Minister urges public servants to conduct themselves in line with the Constitution, the Code of Conduct and the Service Charter. We therefore expect Accounting Officers and Heads of Departments in the Public Service to ensure that our citizens receive the services they expect from their government. We commend the many public servants who, on a daily basis, display professional and ethical values and behaviour which reflects the values and principles enshrined in section 195(1) of the Constitution to create the ideal public service as envisaged in the National Development Plan (NDP). As a public service, we should at all times be guided by the Batho Pele value statement: We Belong, We Care, We Serve , said Minister Muthambi. SAnews.gov.zaTsakane The winds of change has moved across Tsakane Extension 10 informal settlement, near Brakpan, in the former East Rand area.Now that various councils across the country have been constituted and mayors have selected their executive teams, the focus will now shift to the delivery of services to communities over the next five years.Pretoria - The North West provincial government has launched a call centre that is aimed at enhancing service delivery to citizens, said Premier Supra Mahumapelo.