Pretoria - The Presidency on Wednesday said it did not postpone the memorial service of the late struggle veteran, Ahmed Kathrada.In a statement, the Presidency noted the conflicting media reports and social media commentary on the events surrounding the request for postponement of the Official Memorial Service of the late Mr Ahmed Kathrada.The event was due to take place on Saturday, 1 April, in Soweto. We wish to place it on record that Deputy President Ramaphosa did not cancel the memorial service but requested a postponement, the Presidency said.The high office said Deputy President Ramaphosa had been tasked by President Jacob Zuma to lead the government delegation and address the memorial event.Last week, Deputy President Ramaphosa had led the government delegation to Kathrada s funeral at West Park Cemetery in Johannesburg, as delegated by President Zuma.Government s participation in the funeral and at official memorial service was coordinated by the Inter-Ministerial Committee responsible for State and official funerals.On the eve of the scheduled memorial event, Deputy President Ramaphosa was of the view that inadequate preparations had been made to enable a successful Official Memorial Service. In view of political developments in the country, a postponement was required to afford South Africans an opportunity to honour Mr Kathrada with the requisite honour and dignity. Based on this assessment, Deputy President Ramaphosa requested the Director General in the Presidency, Dr Cassius Lubisi, to convey to the Inter-Ministerial Committee the Deputy President s suggestion that the memorial service be postponed until the situation is reassessed. Based on Deputy President Ramaphosa s recommendations, the Inter-Ministerial Committee responsible for State and official funerals duly effected the postponement. The Presidency then communicated the proposal for a postponement to the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation. President Jacob Zuma was not involved in these processes, the Presidency said.The Presidency said government is committed to honouring Kathrada at an appropriate time, in consultation with the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation and the family. Such consultation is routinely undertaken in instances where distinguished South Africans are honoured with official funerals. Our thoughts and prayers remain with the family and friends of the late Mr Kathrada, who is held in high regard by government and the people of South Africa. We regret all the confusion and hurt that has been caused by this postponement. We will make further announcements on the date of the memorial as soon as details are finalised with all role players, the Presidency said. SAnews.gov.zaPretoria The Presidency has clarified that President Jacob Zuma did not cancel the memorial service of the late stalwart Ahmed Kathrada.Pretoria Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa has called on South Africans to continue to fight racism and discrimination.Johannesburg - Ahmed Kathy Kathrada is remembered by most as a man of great integrity, for never being silent about what he stood for and his courage to speak truth to power.