Pretoria The Minister of Public Service and Administration, Advocate Ngoako Ramatlhodi, has reminded public servants, who still hold directorships in companies that are conducting business with an organ of State, that they should either resign from the employment of the public service or from these companies by 31 January 2017. Minister Ramatlhodi warned that public servants, who fail to comply with the deadline, will be in breach of the Public Service Act, 1994 (as amended), and the Public Service Regulations of 2016. The Minister calls upon public servants to remain loyal to their work so as to serve the South African public diligently and with utmost professionalism, said the Ministry of Public Service and Administration.Public Service Regulations of 2016, Chapter 2, stipulate clearly that public servants may not conduct business with any organ of State or be a director of a public or private company conducting business with an organ of State. Minister Ramatlhodi said public servants must be committed to the development and upliftment of all South Africans through the provision of efficient, effective and timely services that are free of any form of unethical behaviour. Public servants may not engage in any transaction or action that is in conflict with or infringes on the execution of their official duties. The Public Service Code of Conduct is clear that public servants must execute their official duties in a professional and competent manner. The Minister reiterates that the primary purpose of the Code of Conduct is a positive one, namely to promote exemplary conduct so as to build a professional Public Service as envisaged in the Constitution, said the Ministry.Chapter 10 of the Constitution of South Africa demands that the public service, amongst others, maintains and promotes a high standard of professional ethics; promotes efficient, economic and effective use of resources; and is accountable for its actions. Regulation 11 (a) of the Public Service Regulations of 2016, reminds Public Servants to adhere to the Constitution and other laws of the Republic. The Minister urged public service employees that at all times, their conduct should be guided by the Batho Pele Value statement: We Belong, We Care, We Serve. SAnews.gov.zaPretoria Public Service and Administration Minister Ngoako Ramatlhodi says following the 2016 Local Government Elections, municipalities have been constituted and councillors are settling in to their new roles.Pretoria Public Service and Administration Minister Ngoako Ramatlhodi says the successful investigation of cases of alleged corruption reported to the National Anti-Corruption Hotline (NACH) has resulted in the recovery of R340 million from perpetrators.Cape Town Public Service and Administration Minister Ngoako Ramatlhodi says innovation should be at the centre of service delivery for government to positively impact on the lives of all South Africans.