Pretoria - Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has pleaded with members of the public to refrain from disrupting schools when protesting.The Department of Basic Education on Tuesday said supplementary examinations were cancelled in three provinces last week, affecting many learners who were hoping to upgrade their National Senior Certificate (NSC) results in order to obtain a pass in grade 12. In the Free State, examination sessions at seven centres were cancelled due to community protests. Thabo Mofutsanyana District officials were escorted by police to deliver question papers. However, the situation was so tense that they could not reach the affected centres. Examination sessions had to be called off after 10am when it became clear that it will not be possible to proceed with exams. In Limpopo, two candidates at two examination centres did not write the examinations due to community protest action, and about 16 candidates at one examination centre in Mpumalanga were unable to write. The department said this has impacted negatively on the prospects of young people who are trying to etch out a future and become contributing members of society. The actions of these protestors, who infringe on citizens right to education, need to be condemned by all caring members of society. As a result of the various protests, the department said it has been forced to make alternative plans to accommodate the learners.In support of learners writing supplementary examinations, the department has prepared recorded lessons for 11 subjects as part of the Second Chance Matric Support Programme.It said the lessons are available on various selected community radio stations and more information on this can be found on the department website http://www.education.gov.za/.More than 92 000 candidates have enrolled nationally to sit for the Supplementary examinations across 5 928 centres which will continue until 30 March 2017. - SAnews.gov.zaPretoria - President Jacob Zuma says the South African government will always prioritise education because it is only through quality education that the country can win the struggle against unemployment, poverty and inequality.Pretoria To improve learner literacy levels, President Jacob Zuma has urged parents who are able read to do so with their children to inspire a love of learning in the country s future leaders.Pretoria - Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga says stakeholders will use the 2017 Basic Education Sector Lekgotla to address issues that include the learner dropout rate and grade repetition.