Pretoria The 16th Metro FM Music Awards (MMA16) promises to be nothing short of spectacular with a dazzling world-class live broadcast.Communications Minister Faith Muthambi is set to grace the 16th Metro FM Music Awards (MMA16) to be held at the Inkosi Luthuli Convention Centre, in Durban on Saturday, with the theme what s next is all that matters .Metro FM is the public broadcaster s (SABC) biggest commercial radio station and is hosting the music awards in partnership with eThekwini Municipality, BP, Audi, African Brank as well as the edition of a new sponsor Caivil.Following the return of SABC 1 as the broadcast partner, the glittering awards will be beamed live on SABC 1. As government, we want to urge South Africans to continue to unite in our quest to support our local music; by saying No to piracy and robbing our local music musicians of their livelihood. As government, our support for the creative industries is unwavering. A major focus of both the SABC and the Department of Arts and Culture has been promoting local content across a variety of disciplines. Both have continued to work with partners in the music industry to implement joint programmes in support of our local music industry, Minister Muthambi said.She said this is also in line with part of the department s efforts to assist musicians to be responsible with their earnings. As Government, our wish is to impart knowledge and life skills to empower our artists to be self-sustaining and grow to be productive and responsible members of society beyond their day of fame. Voting linesWhen Metro FM announced the finalists in January, it also officially opened the voting lines for the public to vote for their favorite artist/s in the various categories.Voting lines which were open to the public since January 17, closed on February 12 via the official Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) line *120*1512#.However, voting for Song of the Year will close on the night of the awards, at a time communicated during the main event. USSD rates will be charged at R1.50 per minute. Album CategoriesBest African Pop Album; Best Compilation album; Best Dance Album; Best Duo/Group Album; Best Female Album; Best Hip Hop Album; Best Kwaito Single; Best Male Album; Best New Artist; Best Urban Gospel Album; Best Urban Jazz Album and Song of the Year 2016. Single CategoriesBest Hit Single; Best R&amp;B Single; Best Collaboration; Best Music Video; Best Remix. Metro FM special awards The following categories can only be voted online on www.mma16.co.za or via www.metrofm.co.za However, the receiver of Lifetime Achiever Award will be chosen by the station:For the second year running, winners in the respective categories will be walking away with R100 000 prize money per category. - SAnews.gov.za 