Pretoria - The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) on Tuesday welcomed Dr Thulani Dlamini as its new CEO.Dlamini is no stranger to the CSIR, having served in different positions in the same organisation in the past.He joined the CSIR in 2005 as the head of the CSIR National Laser Centre and in 2008 he was appointed to the position of Group Executive for Research and Development, a position he held until 2011 when he left the CSIR to join Sasol.At Sasol, he was Executive Manager: Research and Development and later became Vice President for Strategic Research and Technology.Dlamini holds a PhD in Chemistry from the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) and a Master s in Business Leadership from the University of South Africa (UNISA).He has also completed advanced courses in several aspects of technology management and the chemical industry, offered by institutions such as the International Institute for Management Development in Lausanne, Switzerland.He was instrumental in the establishment of the Photonics Initiative of South Africa and the development of a national strategy for photonics research, development and innovation. He is a member of the Academy of Science of South Africa (ASSAF).Furthermore, he has served on numerous boards including the Sasol Pension Fund, Automotive Industry Development Centre, Sasol Technology UK and Netherlands. I am excited about my return to the CSIR to take forward the excellent work of my predecessors. I look forward to working with our partners and the brilliant minds in the organisation. The CSIR is well positioned to have an impact beyond South African borders and it is my hope that together with our global partners, we can deliver on the mandate of the CSIR to use science, engineering and technology to advance society and industry, Dlamini said.CSIR Board Chairperson Professor Thokozani Majozi said by appointing such a thought leader in science, the CSIR is poised for greater success ahead. The board is excited about Dr Dlamini joining the CSIR and we have full confidence in his leadership and management skills. He is indeed the ideal incumbent to usher the CSIR into the new phase. He lands on solid ground, prepared by his predecessors. He can only succeed. We would like to thank Dr Molefi Motuku, who has done a sterling job in leading the organisation as the Acting CEO since October 2016. He will, henceforth, be resuming his duties as the Group Executive for Research and Development, Majozi said.The CSIR is one of the leading scientific and technology research, development and implementation organisations in Africa.Constituted by an Act of Parliament in 1945 as a science council, the CSIR undertakes directed and multidisciplinary research, technological innovation, as well as industrial and scientific development to improve the quality of life of all South Africans. SAnews.gov.zaPretoria - Eskom and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) have signed a partnership that is aimed at aligning and enhancing interaction between the two bodies in support of national goals.Pretoria - Science and Technology Minister Naledi Pandor has opened a bio-manufacturing centre that aims to support small, medium and micro-enterprises (SMMEs) at the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), in Pretoria.Pretoria - Researchers in South Africa are conducting ongoing research into climate dynamics in order to understand the mechanisms and consequences of it in the region in the long and short term.