Pretoria While the recent rains have brought much relief and substantially increased dam levels, flooding has caused havoc in parts of the country.The Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) has issued a comprehensive list of safety tips for the public, should they find themselves facing flooding. Sadly, we have received unconfirmed reports of fatalities within the Northern Cape and North West provinces as a result of flooding. We convey our heartfelt condolences to the families and friends of those who have thus far lost their lives due to the current rains. You are in our prayers, said Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Des van Rooyen.Some bridges and roads are flooded, and this has negatively affected traffic flows and the normal day-to-day life of communities in some parts of the country. Members of the public must take note that it does take a while for water to move down the rivers so flooding may occur even in areas where there is no rain, hence community members must be cautious at all times, the department said.The South African Weather Service says more rain is expected in many parts of the country. Communities under threat or that are exposed to flooding risks are urged to move to higher ground when flash flood warnings are issued. At this stage, our teams across the country are on alert. They are able to cope with the situation and they will do everything possible to assist communities. However, we urge everyone to be extremely vigilant and cautious so that we can save lives, Cogta said.The National Disaster Management Centre (NDMC) is in contact with provincial and local disaster management centres on the ground to monitor the situation and give support. Safety tips- SAnews.gov.zaPretoria Eastern Cape Human Settlements MEC Helen Sauls-August says the department has made remarkable strides in building houses for poor people.Pretoria - Provincial governments in the areas affected by Tuesday s earth tremor have taken the necessary measures to ensure the safety of residents and workers by assessing buildings.