Pretoria - President Jacob Zuma has appointed Professor Daniel Plaatjies as chairperson and Dr Sibongile Muthwa as deputy chairperson of the Financial and Fiscal Commission (FFC). President Jacob Zuma has, in terms of section 221(1) (a) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996, and section 8 of the Financial and Fiscal Commission Act, 1997, appointed Professor Daniel Plaatjies as chairperson and Dr Sibongile Muthwa as deputy chairperson of the Financial and Fiscal Commission, said the Presidency on Monday. The commission's primary objective is to make recommendations to Parliament, the provincial legislatures, local government and other organs of State on financial and fiscal matters as envisaged in the Constitution and other national legislation. Professor Plaatjies has served in various senior positions in the national and provincial governments. He is currently a part-time commissioner of the FFC since September 2013. The professor has also served as a Deputy Director General of Strategy and Business Development at the South African Social Security Agency and is a former Director: Public Finances at the National Treasury.Professor Plaatjies is also a former Head and Director of the Wits School of Governance and is currently a visiting Professor at the University of Free State, School of Business Administration.Dr Muthwa is the Deputy Vice Chancellor: Institutional Support at the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University. She served as Director General of the Eastern Cape Provincial Government and in various positions at local institutions of higher learning.She has been a part-time Commissioner of the FFC since July 2014. Their institutional memory and expertise as well as their experience as serving members of the FFC will add enormous value to the Commission, said the Presidency.The chairperson serves full time while the deputy chairperson position is part-time. President Zuma congratulated Professor Plaatjies and Dr Muthwa and wished them all the best in their new responsibilities. SAnews.gov.zaPretoria A service provider is to be appointed to investigate allegations of impropriety at the Financial and Fiscal Commission (FFC).Pretoria For the country to achieve its desired economic growth levels, the Financial and Fiscal Commission (FFC) an independent statutory body says government should avoid imposing a debt-ceiling as a method of debt control.