To the public, the late Ronnie Mamoepa was a renowned government communicator and long standing public servant, but to his family, he was a loving father to his children and husband to his dear wife Audrey.In her message read out by her daughter, Audrey described Mamoepa as a husband, partner, friend and everything. I promise you my dear love that your memory would be honoured and celebrated. I would miss your sense of humour, I would miss the way you made me laugh, I would miss the way you made me feel safe, I would miss the way you looked at me .thank you for sharing life and a journey with me, reads part of the message.Also paying tribute to their dad, his five children said Mamoepa would be solely missed. My father was a fighter and a warrior, he showed me love. I am grateful for the life we had together and I am grateful for the laughs. You will always be in my heart and I will never forget you, Mamoepa s daughter, Ofentse said in tears.Mamoepa s sister, Kedibone Shabangu, said her brother was the most humbled, honest and committed soul that came across in their lives. He was a God fearing man. He was a spectacular teacher. He loved all of us .he was too good to be true, and that kind of a soul never stays with us, said Shabangu.Mamoepa s brother, Tshepo said his brother was a gentlemen and respected protocol.Mamoepa will be buried at Zandfontein Cemetery, West of Tshwane. His funeral service was held at St Albans Cathedral (Anglican) in Tshwane.President Jacob Zuma declared a Special Provincial Official Funeral for the late Mamoepa. SAnews.gov.zaLate veteran government communicator Ronnie Mamoepa was a selfless individual, not only in the days of the struggle for a democratic South Africa but also as a person, says ANC Gauteng Chairperson Paul Mashatile.Molopyane Ronald Ronnie Mamoepa was a remarkable person who, more than most, gave real meaning to the expression, Motho ke motho ka batho (A person is what he is because of other people).Ronnie Mamoepa, the fourth child of Mrs Helen Mamoepa, was born in Atteridgeville, west of Pretoria. From humble beginnings he was destined to leave an indelible mark on the country s communication environment and on the Departments in which he worked over his almost four decade career as a communicator and activist.