Tata Madiba once said: “Our children are the rock on which our future will be built, our greatest asset as a nation. They will be the leaders of our country, the creators of our national wealth who care for and protect our people. (3 June 1995).” Today, Communications Deputy Minister Tandi Mahambehlala, Brand SA and the South Africa’s Men’s Hockey Team spent Mandela Day at the New Jerusalem Children’s Home in Midrand, Johannesburg. Brand SA Chief Marketing Officer Linda Magapatona said Mandela Day is about contributing, having a sense of service and doing something for your community and to make South Africa a better place. “It is … about making other people happier and content in their lives. Being here at the children’s home is more important because helping and giving off yourself (can make SA a better place) … I think the first people we need to help in our country are the children and youth because they are the future of this country. “We need to inspire them, we need to give them opportunities, mentorship and just ensure that they have a better life,” said Magapatona. International Mandela Day is a commemorative day inspired by a call Nelson Mandela made for the next generation to take on the burden of leadership in addressing the world’s social injustices. The day called on individuals to donate 67 minutes to doing something for others, commemorating the 67 years that Mandela had been a part of the movement. Deputy Minister Mahambehlala said: “This man that we are celebrating today was a selfless leader that loved children so much”. She said celebrating Mandela Day is not a favour as the day befits the stature of an icon and really represents a unity that can get South Africa somewhere. The Deputy Minister said that 67 minutes is very important to make a contribution, adding that everyday should be a Nelson Mandela Day. “Sixty seven minutes of Nelson Mandela Day must be an everyday phenomenon for us to be able to make a meaningful contribution. We can reach out to many people who needs assistance…” She also commended companies, led by Brand SA, who joined them on the day to contribute to the plight of children. “It is very fascinating to have people that create a platform for us to see that these are the areas of need, these are the people that we need to ensure that their lives are bettered by our own government.” Be role models, inspire kids Hockey Team player Owen Mvimbi stressed the importance for sportsmen and women to become role models and inspire children. “Once we inspire them, they get a little hope that one day they will become somebody in terms of sports. It all starts with a dream, and for all of us, when we are kids we dream and want to become somebody that we see, and that’s where it all starts from being a role model for the younger generation. “The responsibility we have as sportsmen and women is huge because when we win or lose, the kids are watching us,” said Mvimbi. The kids got an opportunity to learn how to play hockey from the team players, who also did their bit of 67 minutes by helping out with the vegetable garden. Brand SA’s Magapatona thanked the hockey team for taking time to play with the children. Brand SA is sponsoring both female and male hockey teams in the international tournament currently taking place in the country. – SAnews.gov.za