Pretoria - KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Finance Belinda Scott has tabled the provincial budget of R607.844 million, saying the provincial focus will be on supporting and engaging all role players. [The] Provincial Treasury s focus will be on regular hands-on engagement and support to departments, public entities and municipalities to enhance their financial accounting and reporting performance, as well as continued staff development and training programmes. This so as to develop and retain the requisite financial management skills and expertise, she said on Wednesday.The MEC said the focus in the 2017/18 financial year will again be directed at achieving cleaner audit reports, the taking of effective steps to eliminate fraud and corruption and to ensure transparent and fair supply chain management practices, among others.MEC Scott said the provincial Supply Chain Management unit (SCM) is currently putting in place all necessary policies, to ensure that the mandate of Radical Economic Transformation is achieved. This is in line with the resolutions of the Procurement Indaba, which are currently being implemented at different levels of government in the province. This will include the implementation of the new PPPFA Regulations of 2017. The unit has further finalised the Events Management transversal contract, and is currently in the process of awarding the bid for bond paper, she said.The MEC said a total R151.596 million would be spent on administration, while programme two of the department: Fiscal Resource Management will receive R96.056 million.The main purpose of Programme two is the effective management and monitoring of the provincial and local government fiscal resources and budget processes. We will continue to ensure fiscal stability in the province by closely monitoring departmental and municipal revenue and expenditure in order to improve the robustness of the budget process, she said.InvestigationsThe MEC said currently the Forensic Investigation Unit is investigating fraud and corruption amounting to approximately R6.9 billion, cumulative from 2009. Most of the allegations received and investigated are serious and complex in nature. The unit will continue to work hand-in-hand with the law enforcement agencies such as the South African Police Service on matters requiring criminal investigation, she said.She further added that there have been several arrests that have been made, as well as successful disciplinary action conducted by some departments. Of recent, there has been an Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) preservation order granted to the value of R546 million against a former official of one of the provincial department and various service providers. She said the unit is inundated with allegations reported against local government institutions, provincial departments and a few from public entities. These investigations are very costly, and create serious financial pressures for the unit, hence it was decided that local government institutions and public entities have to fund their own investigations, disciplinary hearings and criminal investigations. The provincial Treasury will, however, assist wherever possible, but will prioritise investigation requests from departments, she said. SAnews.gov.za 