Pretoria - The Gauteng Provincial Government says it had successfully processed beyond 150 000 applications for the 2018 school year registration, by lunch time, on Wednesday.The provincial government released a statement, saying about 154 916 applications around lunch time, which is almost half of the 350 000 applications expected for the 2018 school year. Reaching this milestone in one and half days is significant and justifies the shift to online application. With manual applications this milestone would be reached in at least three months, said the provincial government.It said the success can be attributed to the modifications and improvement made to the system, including but not limited to the establishment of 65 admissions centres across Gauteng. Still we have identified few minor errors on the system, including incomplete waiting list numbers, parents receiving WAB list numbers-- meaning that addresses could not be found, and isolated cases where the system show schools far from the home or work address of the parent. However all of these have been resolved. The department will re-issue SMS's to parents with incomplete reference numbers and WAB list numbers, said the provincial government.The provincial government said its technicians are working on the system 24-hours round the clock.Should parents still be experiencing problems, the provincial government said, they are welcome to send the nature of the issue to gdeinfo@gauteng.gov.za or call 0800 000 879. Parents are continuing to be assisted via the 65 operation centres. They are reminded to submit documents to the school within seven days, which includes:- ID copies of parent/guardian- Learner Birth certificate- Latest School report (Grade 7)- Proof of work or home address- Immunisation card (Grade 1 Applicants)- Proof of guardianship of the learner, if not biological parents- Parent/ Guardian passport/Asylum Seekers permit for non-South African Citizen Parents that have not yet applied for Grade 1 and 8 must do so as soon as possible. The closing date is the 12 June at midnight. Parents with learners in Grade 2-7 and Grade 9-11 are reminded of re-enrollment at the school, said the provincial government. - SAnews.gov.zaPretoria - The Gauteng Provincial Government has officially handed over the newly constructed Bophelong Secondary School in the Southern Development Corridor of Gauteng in Emfuleni.